Provide an introduction to the Canton Console (#15292)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/tools/canton-console.rst

.. Copyright (c) 2022 Digital Asset (Switzerland) GmbH and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Canton Console
##############

Introduction
============

Canton offers a console where administrative or debugging commands can be run.

When you run the Sandbox using ``daml start`` or ``daml sandbox``, you are effectively starting an
in-memory instance of Canton with a single domain and a single participant.

> As such, you can interact with the running Sandbox using the Canton Console, just like you would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, you can interact with the running Sandbox using the console, just like you would
```

in a production environment.

> The purpose of this page is to give a few pointers on how the Canton Console can be used to
> interact with a running Sandbox. For an in-depth guide on how to use this tool against a production,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this page is to give a few pointers on how the console can be used to
interact with a running Sandbox. For an in-depth guide on how to use this tool against a production,
```

> staging or testing environment, consult the main documentation for the Canton Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
staging or testing environment, consult the main documentation for the Canton console.
```
We should have a link here; see comment below.

Run the Canton Console against the Sandbox
==========================================

Once you have a Sandbox running locally (for example after running ``daml start`` or ``daml sandbox``)

> you can start the Canton Console with the following command (in a separate terminal from the one where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can start the console with the following command (in a separate terminal from the one where
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/15292/commits/f2f3f3bfb8c5e4ebc0c8c539606e52f83b98d132

the Sandbox is running, if any)::

   daml canton-console

Once the Canton Console started (it might take some time the first time) you can quit the session by
running the ``exit`` command.

Built-in documentation
======================

> The Canton Console comes with built-in documentation that allows you to discover its features. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Canton console comes with built-in documentation that allows you to discover its features. You
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/15292/commits/f2f3f3bfb8c5e4ebc0c8c539606e52f83b98d132

can use the ``help`` command to get online documentation for top-level commands. Many objects in the
console also have further built-in help, by invoking the ``help`` method on them.

You can for example ask for help on the ``health`` object by typing::

  health.help

Or go more in depth about specific items within that object as in the following example::

  health.help("status")

Interact with the Sandbox
=========================

> One of the objects available in the Canton Console represents the Sandbox itself. The object is called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the objects available in the Canton console represents the Sandbox itself. The object is called
```

``sandbox`` and you can use it to interact with the Sandbox. For example, you can list the DARs loaded
on the Sandbox by running the following command::

  sandbox.dars.list()

> Among the various features available as part of the Canton Console, you can manage parties and packages,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among the various features available as part of the console, you can manage parties and packages,
```

> check the health of the Sandbox, perform pruning operations and more. You are advised to consult the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
check the health of the Sandbox, perform pruning operations and more. Consult the
```

> built-in documentation as mentioned above to learn about further capabilities, as well as consulting
> the main documentation page for the Canton Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
built-in documentation mentioned above and the main documentation page for the Canton console to learn about further capabilities.
```

Is the main documentation page we refer to here https://docs.daml.com/2.5.0/index/operate-a-daml-ledger/canton-administration-quickstart/index.html?

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/15313
